---
title: Postdoc wanted
tags:
  - jobs
  - phylogenetics
  - comparative genomics
  - bioinformatics
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

# We are hiring a Postdoctoral Fellow in Bioinformatics and Genomics

## General Information

- Position Number: POST40 (all postdoc positions have the same number)
- Working Title: Postdoctoral Fellow: Bioinformatics and Genomics
- College: College of Computing and Informatics (CCI)
- Department: Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics (BiG)
- Work Location: CCI, BiG, [CIPHER center](https://cipher.charlotte.edu/)
- Vacancy Open To: All Candidates
- Employment Type: Temporary - Part-time
- Work Schedule: Monday to Friday, 8 hours per day, 40 hours per week
- Pay Rate: $ 50,000.00 (USD) minimum (pay rate varies)
- Minimum Experience/Education: The Postdoctoral appointee must have been awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate degree (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.) in the past eight years
- How to apply: Candidates can apply on [NinerTalent](https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/46283) after November 7, 2023

As an EOE/AA employer and an ADVANCE Institution that strives to create an academic climate in which the dignity of all individuals is respected and maintained, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte encourages applications from all underrepresented groups.

The chosen candidate is subject to a criminal background check and must provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree.

## Departmental Preferred Experience, Skills, and Training or Education

The employee will have already acquired a Ph.D. or equivalent within the last eight years. They should be able to exercise scientific judgment daily. They will evaluate incoming information through experimental data and observations, written literature documentation, and oral communications and use this information to judge what step(s) will next lead to progress.

The initial contract will be for one year, with the option to renew for a second year. Subsequent years will depend on available funding.
A Postdoctoral Fellow ("postdoc") is a professional apprenticeship designed to provide Ph.D. recipients (especially those who were awarded a doctoral degree in the past eight years) with an opportunity to develop further the research skills acquired in their doctoral programs or to learn new research techniques in preparation for an academic or research career. In further developing their research skills, it is expected that Postdoctoral Fellows will also play a significant role in the performance of research at the University and augment the role of graduate faculty in providing research instruction to graduate students. A Postdoctoral Fellow works under the supervision of a regular faculty member, who serves as a mentor to the Fellow. The faculty mentor is expected to impart the realities and variety of scientific careers and encourage experiences outside the laboratory to broaden postdocs' aspirations. Within the confines of the particular research focus assigned by that faculty member, the Postdoctoral Fellow functions with a considerable degree of independence and has the freedom (and is expected) to publish the results of their research or scholarship during the period of appointment. Thus, the role of Postdoctoral Fellows is not the same as full-time technical employees.

## Preferable Expertise

The candidate must have basic computational skills, including Bash, Unix, Python, and R training. Moreover, the candidate must have a background in phylogenetics, molecular biology, evolution, and statistics. Furthermore, the candidate must show at least an introductory understanding of genomics, transcriptomics, and microscopy. Finally, training in virology, epidemiology, or zoology is not required but is highly desirable.

## Duties and Responsibilities

All of the following conditions characterize postdoc appointments:

- The appointee was recently (within the last eight years) awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.);
- The appointment is temporary (12 months, but renewable for up to five years);
- The appointment involves substantially full-time research or scholarship;
- The appointment is viewed as preparatory for a full-time academic or research career;
- The appointee works under the supervision of a faculty member; and
- The appointee has the freedom and is expected to publish the results of their research or scholarship during the period of appointment.

## Other Work/Responsibilities

The employee will report to [Dr. Denis Jacob Machado](https://cipher.charlotte.edu/directory/denis-jacob-machado-phd) (Assistant Professor in Bioinformatics) and will be a senior member of the Phyloinformatics Lab, supporting projects through original research, collaboration with other team members, and co-mentoring students. The employee's principal research responsibilities will be training and research.

The Phyloinformatics Lab's research can be divided into four components:

1. We are facilitating resource-efficient molecular analyses and making data from museum biorepositories more readily available to biomedical research.
2. We are improving genomic resources of non-model organisms with a focus on animals of particular medical or environmental interest.
3. We are developing phylogenetics solutions, especially if they can help improve our understanding of zoonosis.
4. We are integrating "omics" technologies (e.g., genomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and proteomics) to study complex host-pathogen systems in the context of One Health.

The successful applicant will conduct research that aligns with at least one of the abovementioned components. Additional comparative genomics and phylogenetics projects are encouraged, especially when public data or collaborations are available.

The candidate must have basic computational skills, including Bash, Unix, Python, and R training. Moreover, the candidate must have a background in phylogenetics, molecular biology, evolution, and statistics. Furthermore, the candidate must show at least an introductory understanding of genomics, transcriptomics, and microscopy. Finally, training in virology, epidemiology, or zoology is not required but is highly desirable.

Preference will be given to candidates who better fit the preferred skills list.

## Additional Details

- Proposed Hire Date: 1/31/2023 (negotiable)
- Expected Length of Assignment: 12 months
- Posting Open Date: 11/07/2022 (candidates can apply on [NinerTalent](https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/46283) after this date)
- Posting Close Date: until psition is filled

## Special Notes to Applicants

Please upload the following three documents with your electronic submission:

1. A cover letter (letter paper, 1-inch margins, font size 12, double-spaced, up to two pages).
2. A complete Curriculum Vitae (any format).
3. Contact information for three professional references (name, position, institution, and institutional email).

Optional documents:

1. Unnoficial transcript
2. Statement of reserach interests (letter paper, 1-inch margins, font size 12, double-spaced, up to four pages)
3. Writting sample (one to three papers)

The candidate must have a doctorate degree. That doctorate degree can be in something other than bioinformatics or computational biology. Publications, talks, and posters in the fields of biology, bioinformatics, computational biology, molecular biology, or evolution are desired but not mandatory.

The ideal candidate may have only some of the listed desirable skills (see above). In that case, that candidate must show interest and capacity to learn the additional skills.

This position will be closed once the position is filled.

{% include link.html link="https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/46283" text="Apply at NinerTalent" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}
