---
title: Larry Mays Seminars in Bioinformatics
tags:
  - bioinformatics
  - seminar
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

I am hosting the Larry Mays Seminars in Bioinformatics this Fall, 2023. On Sept. 1 we won't have an event due to Labor Day weekend. The first seminar will be on Sept. 8. Details are below (also [CLICK HERE](https://cci.charlotte.edu/departments/bioinformatics/seminars/)).

# The Larry Mays Seminars in Bioinformatics

## Description

UNC Charlotte’s Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics (BiG) hosts a weekly seminar series named after Dr. Lawrence Mays (Emeritus Faculty). The Larry Mays Seminars in Bioinformatics ([CLICK HERE](https://cci.charlotte.edu/departments/bioinformatics/seminars/)) covers research within Bioinformatics, Genomics, and Computational Biology. Seminars are free and open to the public. Seminars take place on Fridays at 2:30- 3:30 PM. All seminars are hosted from the Bioinformatics building, room 105. Please contact Dr. Denis Jacob Machado or Dr. Laurel Yohe for questions or suggestions.

The seminars are also a one-credit graduate course (BINF-6600 and BINF-8600 combined). The instructor for the Fall 2023 semester is Dr. Jacob Machado. Dr. Yohe will be the instructor in the Spring semester of 2024. Students enrolled in BINF-6600 or BINF-8600 can see course details on CANVAS.

## Schedule

Schedule for the Fall semester of 2023:

- 08/25: No seminars (we will host the Student Orientation and Five Minute Madness instead)
- 09/01: No seminars (Labor Day weekend)
- 09/08: Seminar 01—UNC Charlotte’s HPC student group will introduce a new training module for our research clusters
- 09/15: Seminar 02—Dr. Ward Wheeler (American Museum of Natural History) will talk about multi-armed bandits, Thompson sampling, and machine learning in phylogenetic graph search, among other topics (CLICK HERE FOR ZOOM)
- 09/22: Seminar 03—Dr. Lucas Czeck (Carnegie Institution for Science)
- 09/29: Seminar 04—Dr. Cathy Moore (Biosafety Officer at UNC Charlotte’s Division of Research)
- 10/06: Seminar 05—Dr. Viviana Monje-Galvan (University at Buffalo)
- 10/13: Seminar 06—Dr. Grace Wyngaard (James Madison University)
- 10/20: Seminar 07—Dr. Brian Cleary (Boston University)
- 10/27: No seminars (Football History vs. Florida Atlantic University at the Jerry Richardson Stadium)
- 11/03: Seminar 08—Dr. Muhammad Iqbal Qureshi (Public Health Reference Laboratory and Khyber Medical University)
- 11/10: No seminars (Veteran’s Day)
- 11/17: Seminar 09—Dr. Carla Osthoff Ferreira de Barros (National Laboratory of Scientific Computing, Brazilian Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation)
- 11/24: No seminars (Thanksgiving Break)
- 12/01: Seminar 10 (last one)—Dr. Joshua David Campbell (Boston University)

## Note

This schedule is subject to change, and this website will be updated every Tuesday during the Fall semester of 2023. Zoom links will be shared via email (you may contact Dr. Jacob Machado for details).

# BINF-6600 and BINF-8600 combined

The Larry Mays Seminars in Bioinformatics is also a 1 credit graduate level course. Students enrolled in BINF-6600 or BINF-8600 are expected to attend the seminars in person even when the speaker is joining us virtually. More details are in the syllabus (on CANVAS).