---
title: Top Cited Article
tags:
  - research
  - phylogenetics
  - coronaviruses
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

# Our Work is a Top Cited Article

Cladistics has announced that our article is one of the most cited in 2021-22. The paper title is "Fundamental evolution of all *Orthocoronavirinae* including three deadly lineages descendent from Chiroptera-hosted coronaviruses: SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2," and the abstract is below.

## Abstract

The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) emerged in humans in 2002. Despite reports showing Chiroptera as the original animal reservoir of SARS-CoV, many argue that Carnivora-hosted viruses are the most likely origin. The emergence of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in 2012 also involves Chiroptera-hosted lineages. However, factors such as the lack of comprehensive phylogenies hamper our understanding of host shifts once MERS-CoV emerged in humans and Artiodactyla. Since 2019, the origin of SARS-CoV-2, causative agent of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), added to this episodic history of zoonotic transmission events. Here we introduce a phylogenetic analysis of 2006 unique and complete genomes of different lineages of *Orthocoronavirinae*. We used gene annotations to align orthologous sequences for total evidence analysis under the parsimony optimality criterion. *Deltacoronavirus* and *Gammacoronavirus* were set as outgroups to understand spillovers of *Alphacoronavirus* and *Betacoronavirus* among ten orders of animals. We corroborated that Chiroptera-hosted viruses are the sister group of SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2 and MERS-related viruses. Other zoonotic events were qualified and quantified to provide a comprehensive picture of the risk of coronavirus emergence among humans. Finally, we used a 250 SARS-CoV-2 genomes dataset to elucidate the phylogenetic relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and Chiroptera-hosted coronaviruses.

## Citation

{% include link.html link="https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/cla.12454" text="GO TO PAPER" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}
