---
title: Tucana is our New High-Memory Computer Node
tags:
  - hpc
  - computing
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

# Tucana is now online

Tucana is a new large memory machine acquired by the Phyloinformatics Lab and added to UNC Charlotte's University Research Cluster (URC).

Tucana has **64 cores** (2 x AMD EPYC 7513 2.6GHz, 32C/64T, 128M Cache, 200W, DDR4-3200), **4,096GB RAM** (32 x 128GB LRDIMM, 3200MT/s, Quad Rank 480GB SSD SATA Mix Use 6Gbps 512 2.5in Hot-plug AG Drive,3.5in HYB CARR, 3 DWPD), a **480GB SSD** (SATA Mix Use 6Gbps 512 2.5in Hot-plug AG Drive,3.5in HYB CARR, 3 DWPDand), and a **CONNECTX 6 VPI ADAPT CARD** (H100GB/S HDR100 EDR IB & 100GBE).

Click the button below for more details about the URC.

{% include link.html link="https://oneit.charlotte.edu/urc/research-clusters" text="UNC Charlotte's URC" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}


## The constellation

Tucana constellation lies in the southern hemisphere. It represents the toucan, a bird found in tropical and sub-tropical regions.

The constellation was introduced by the Dutch astronomer Petrus Plancius from the observations of Dutch sailors Frederick de Houtman and Pieter Dirkszoon Keyser in the late 16th century. It was first depicted in a celestial atlas in 1603, in Johann Bayer’s Uranometria.

The constellation is home to the Tucana Dwarf galaxy, the Small Magellanic Cloud, the globular cluster 47 Tucanae, and several other notable deep sky objects.

{% include link.html link="https://www.constellation-guide.com/constellation-list/tucana-constellation/" text="MORE ABOUT STARS" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}

## The toucan

Tucana stands for toucan. This animal is perhaps the most well known tropical bird. It is a symbol of playfulness and intelligence. Toucans spend their lives high in the rainforest canopies of Central and South America; they seldom make trips to the forest floor.

The biggest threat to toucans right now is habitat loss. As the rainforests are being cut down to make way for roads, farms, and buildings, all of the wildlife that live there are losing their homes. The yellow-browed toucanet has a very small range in Peru. Coca growers have taken over its forest home, making this toucan the only one to be listed as endangered, but many others are becoming threatened.

Toucans are still hunted in parts of Central America and the Amazon region. Hunters often mimic toucan calls to draw the birds close. Many toucans are captured for the pet trade or for use as stuffed trophies to hang on a wall.

{% include link.html link="https://animals.sandiegozoo.org/animals/toucan" text="MORE ABOUT TOUCANS" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}