---
title: Postdoc wanted in ZVBD Lab
tags:
  - jobs
  - zoonosis
  - epidemiology
  - molbio
  - bioinformatics
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

**This position was closed.**

# Postdoctoral Fellow for ZVBD Lab (position closed)

## General Information

- Position Number: POST40 (all postdoc positions have the same number)
- Working Title: Postdoctoral Fellow for Zoonotic and Vector-Borne Diseases (ZVBD) Lab; College of Health and Human Services
- College: College of Health and Human Services (CHHS)
- Supervisor: Assistant Professor Dr. Rafael Felipe da Costa Vieira
- Work Location: [CIPHER center](https://cipher.charlotte.edu/)
- Vacancy Open To: All Candidates
- Employment Type: Temporary - Part-time
- Work Schedule: M-F 8-5
- Pay Rate: Pay rate varies
- Minimum Experience/Education: The Postdoctoral appointee must have recently (within the last eight years) been awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.)
- How to apply: Candidates can apply on [NinerTalent](https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/49535) after July 15, 2023

As an EOE/AA employer and an ADVANCE Institution that strives to create an academic climate in which the dignity of all individuals is respected and maintained, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte encourages applications from all underrepresented groups.

The chosen candidate is subject to a criminal background check and must provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree.

## Minimum Experience

The Postdoctoral appointee must have recently (within the last eight years) been awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.)

A Postdoctoral Fellow ("postdoc") is a professional apprenticeship designed to provide recent Ph.D. recipients with an opportunity to develop further the research skills acquired in their doctoral programs or to learn new research techniques, in preparation for an academic or research career. In the process of further developing their own research skills, it is expected that Postdoctoral Fellows will also play a significant role in the performance of research at the University and augment the role of graduate faculty in providing research instruction to graduate students. A Postdoctoral Fellow works under the supervision of a regular faculty member, who serves as a mentor to the Fellow, and it is expected that the faculty mentor will impart the realities, and variety, of scientific careers, and will encourage experiences outside the laboratory to broaden postdocs’ aspirations. Within the confines of the particular research focus assigned by that faculty member, the Postdoctoral Fellow functions with a considerable degree of independence and has the freedom (and is expected) to publish the results of his or her research or scholarship during the period of appointment. Thus, the role of Postdoctoral Fellows is clearly differentiated from full-time technical employees. Postdoc appointments are characterized by all of the following conditions: the appointee was recently (within the last eight years) awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.); the appointment is temporary; the appointment involves substantially full-time research or scholarship; the appointment is viewed as preparatory for a full-time academic and/or research career; the appointee works under the supervision of a faculty member; and the appointee has the freedom and is expected to publish the results of his or her research or scholarship during the period of appointment.

## Departmental Preferred Experience, Skills, and Training or Education

1. Ph.D. in Veterinary Medicine, Entomology, Biology, Genetics, Bioinformatics, or related discipline.
2. Hands-on laboratory experience in molecular diagnostics.
2. A solid experimental and writing background with evidence of these skills (e.g., publications) related to zoonotic and vector-borne disease data.
3. Optional: Previous experience in ticks and tick-borne diseases analysis.
4. Optional. Previous research experience in genomics.

## Primary Purpose of the Position

We are looking for an enthusiastic postdoctoral researcher to work on the ecoepidemiology of ticks and tick-borne diseases, tick microbiome, genetic diversity of vector-borne pathogens, comparative genomics of hemoplasmas, pathogen discovery on wildlife and/or zoonotic spillover.

## Duties and Responsibilities

The employee will report to Dr. Rafael Felipe da Costa Vieira and will be a senior Zoonotic and Vector-Borne Diseases (ZVBD) Laboratory member, supporting projects through original research and collaboration with other team members and co-mentoring students. The employee’s principal responsibilities will be training other lab members, producing scientific research, and helping manage dry and wet labs.

The successful applicant will study and conduct research that aligns with at least one of the above mentioned components. Additional ZVBD projects are encouraged, especially when public data, international collaborations, and funding are available.

The candidate must have hands-on laboratory experience in molecular diagnostics and a background in veterinary medicine, entomology, acarology, biology, or a related field. Candidates should also have strong writing skills and demonstrated high experience in peer-review publications.

Preference will be given to candidates familiarized with entomology, environmental sampling and taxonomy of tick skills, phylogenetic analysis, assembling and analyzing short-read data (e.g., Illumina) or long-read data (e.g., Oxford Nanopore), and willing to learn new skills.

The employee will confer with Dr. Vieira on overall research direction and strategy but will exercise
considerable independent judgment and original thinking that contributes to original knowledge and advances the University’s reputation in research. Under the supervision of Dr. Vieira, the employee will publish in peer-reviewed journals. They will share student mentoring and participate in departmental seminars and other professional activities. The employee will have the opportunity to learn, grow professionally, and attend domestic and international conferences.

The ZVBD Lab is a multi-cultural and friendly environment, welcoming all individuals regardless of their disabilities, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, ancestry, or religion. Individuals belonging to minorities or groups that are underrepresented in health-related sciences are particularly encouraged to apply.

As an EOE/AA employer and an ADVANCE Institution that strives to create an academic climate in which the dignity of all individuals is respected and maintained, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte encourages applications from all underrepresented groups. Applicants are subject to criminal background checks. The candidate chosen for this position will be required to provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree. 

## Additional Details

- Proposed Hire Date: 07/17/2023
- Expected Length of Assignment: 1-2 years
- Posting Open Date: 04/25/2023 (candidates can apply on [NinerTalent](https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/49535) after this date)
- Posting Close Date: 07/15/2023

## Special Notes to Applicants

The candidate chosen for this position will be required to provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree.
The candidate chosen for this position will be subject to a criminal background check.

{% include link.html link="https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/49535" text="Apply at NinerTalent" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}

**This position was closed.**