---
title: Postdoc wanted in CIPHER (CLOSED)
tags:
  - jobs
  - zoonosis
  - epidemiology
  - molbio
  - bioinformatics
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

# Postdoctoral Fellow for One Health Research in UNC Charlotte's CIPHER center (CLOSED)

**UPDATE (6/16/2023): WE ARE NO LONGER ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THIS POSITION.**

## General Information

- Position Number: POST40 (all post-doc positions have the same number)
- Working Title: Postdoctoral Fellow for One Health Research in UNC Charlotte's CIPHER center
- College: CCI
- Supervisor: Professor Dr. Daniel A. Janies
- Work Location: CIPHER center (Dept. of Bioinformatics, 4th floor)
- Vacancy Open To: All Candidates
- Employment Type: Temporary - Part-time
- Work Schedule: M-F 8-5
- Pay Rate: Pay rate varies
- Minimum Experience/Education: The Postdoctoral appointee must have recently (within the last eight years) been awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.)
- How to apply: Candidates can apply on [NinerTalent](https://jobs.charlotte.edu/postings/49535)

As an EOE/AA employer and an ADVANCE Institution that strives to create an academic climate in which the dignity of all individuals is respected and maintained, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte encourages applications from all underrepresented groups.

The chosen candidate is subject to a criminal background check and must provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree.

## Minimum Experience

The Postdoctoral appointee must have recently (within the last eight years) been awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.)

A Postdoctoral Fellow ("post-doc") is a professional apprenticeship designed to provide recent Ph.D. recipients with an opportunity to develop further the research skills acquired in their doctoral programs or to learn new research techniques in preparation for an academic or research career. In the process of further developing their own research skills, it is expected that Postdoctoral Fellows will also play a significant role in the performance of research at the University and augment the role of graduate faculty in providing research instruction to graduate students. A Postdoctoral Fellow works under the supervision of a regular faculty member, who serves as a mentor to the Fellow, and it is expected that the faculty mentor will impart the realities and variety of scientific careers and will encourage experiences outside the laboratory to broaden the post-docs' aspirations. Within the confines of the particular research focus assigned by that faculty member, the Postdoctoral Fellow functions with a considerable degree of independence and has the freedom (and is expected) to publish the results of his/her/their research or scholarship during the period of appointment. Thus, the role of Postdoctoral Fellows is clearly differentiated from full-time technical employees. Post-doc appointments are characterized by all of the following conditions: the appointee was recently (within the last eight years) awarded a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate (e.g., Sc.D., M.D.); the appointment is temporary (12-month contracts that can be renewed up to five times contingent to funds availability and performance); the appointment involves substantially full-time research or scholarship; the appointment is viewed as preparatory for a full-time academic or research career; the appointee works under the supervision of a faculty member; and the appointee has the freedom and is expected to publish the results of his/her/their research or scholarship during the period of appointment.

## Departmental Preferred Experience, Skills, and Training or Education

1. Ph.D. in a Bioinformatics and Biology related field
2. Hands-on laboratory experience in molecular biology
3. A solid experimental and writing background with evidence of these skills (e.g., publications) in fields that align with the objectives of the CIPHER center to predict or prevent health or environmental risks
4. Demonstrable computing skills (e.g., working with laboratory and bioinformatics applications in GUI and command-line driven environments)
5. Optional: Previous experience in vector-borne diseases
6. Optional: Previous research experience in genomics

## Primary Purpose of the Position

We are looking for an enthusiastic and flexible postdoctoral researcher to work on emergent and durable infectious diseases from a wide organismal (e.g., viral, bacterial, protozoan, animal, vector-borne, respiratory, and sexually transmitted), molecular, and geospatial.

## Duties and Responsibilities

The ideal candidate will be able to apply computing and empirical technologies synergistically to answer pressing questions in the One Health context. The post-doc will work at the Center for Computational Intelligence to Predict Health and Environmental Risks (CIPHER) center. The post-doc will research one or more fields: genomics and computing technologies applied to microbiology, biological and human diversity, or health. The post-doc research must provide solutions for one or more of the following: infectious diseases (including emergent viruses and durable problems such as malaria), the global spread of antibiotic resistance, food safety, or failing ecosystem health. The post-doc will interact with CIPHER's domestic and international partners for joint research. The post-doc will also assist with the training and mentoring of other staff as well as undergrad and graduate students.

As an EOE/AA employer and an ADVANCE Institution that strives to create an academic climate in which the dignity of all individuals is respected and maintained, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte encourages applications from all underrepresented groups. Applicants are subject to criminal background checks. In addition, the candidate chosen for this position will be required to provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree. 

## Additional Details

- Proposed Hire Date: Fall semester, 2023
- Expected Length of Assignment: 1 calendar year (renewal is possible but not guaranteed)
- Posting Open Date: May, 2023
- Posting Close Date: June, 2023

For more details, please see the original post in [NinerTalent](https://jobs.charlotte.edu/).

## Special Notes to Applicants

The candidate chosen for this position must provide an official transcript of their highest earned degree.
The candidate chosen for this position will be subject to a check for criminal background and eligibility for employment in the United States.

## Application

The application must include the following documents:

- Cover letter
- Curriculum Vitae
- Name and contact information of three professional references
- All forms completed

# NOTE

UPDATE (6/16/2023): WE ARE NO LONGER ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THIS POSITION.

{% include link.html link="https://jobs.charlotte.edu/" text="Find post in NinerTalent" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}