---
title: CCI's Smart and Secure Future Computing summer REU project
tags:
  - computing
  - informatics
  - research
  - summer
author: Denis Jacob Machado
member: Denis_Jacob_Machado
---

# Smart and Secure Future Computing

On May 28, 2024, we had the honor to receive two new undergraduate researchers at the phyloinformatics lab: Manish Kota and Amariah Robinson. They are being funded by our REU program.

{% include figure.html image="images/reu-2019-600x451.jpg" caption="Some of our 2019 students."%}
{:.center}

## About

Our Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) program engages undergraduate students in the state of the art in cybersecurity and artificial intelligence with a variety of cutting-edge domains. The program immerses students in a truly collaborative research community. We teach research skills through training sessions and experiential, hands-on learning, while students are active contributors to a community of practice that includes faculty, graduate students, and peers.

Students have the opportunity to explore research problems and advance solutions in cybersecurity and artificial intelligence to address real-world problems with broad societal impact. Past projects have included the development of algorithms for analyzing medical images to improve clinical diagnosis of heart conditions and breast cancer, visualization of algorithms for vandal detection, examining perceptions of makerspaces, and studies of privacy and user expectations in social media.

We welcome participation from all students. We are particularly committed to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in computing, and strongly encourage applications from women and underrepresented minority students, students from institutions where research opportunities are limited, and applicants from minority and women’s institutions.

## Sponsors

The REU Site is funded by the National Science Foundation:

- 6th Site Award, NSF #2244424 –  REU Site: Smart and Secure Future Computing
- 5th Site Award, NSF #1757844 – REU Site: Making Future Communities:Infrastructure and Interaction Design for Cyber-Physical Systems
- 4th Site Award, NSF#1461166 – REU Site: Socially Relevant Computing in Pervasive Computing, Computer Vision, and Human-Computer Interaction
- 3rd Site Award, NSF#1156822 – REU Site: Exploring Human Centered and Socially Relevant Interactive Technologies in Computer Vision, Visualization, Pervasive Computing, Serious Games, and Social Networks
- 2nd Site Award, NSF #0851745 – REU Site: Socially Relevant Computing Research: Visualization, Virtual Environments, Gaming, and Networking
- 1st Site Award, NSF #0552631 – REU Site: Computing Research for Undergraduates: Visualization, Virtual Environments, Gaming, and Networking

{% include link.html link="https://reu.charlotte.edu/" text="Go to our REU page" icon="fas fa-arrow-right" flip=true %}
{:.center}
